Nowadays, there is a huge and growing concern about security in information and communication technology among the scientific community because any attack or anomaly in the network can greatly affect many domains such as national security, private data storage, social welfare, economic issues, and so on. Therefore, the anomaly detection domain is a broad research area, and many different techniques and approaches for this purpose have emerged through the years
        Computer security has become a necessity due to proliferation of information technologies in everyday life. The mass usage of computerized systems has given rise to critical threats such as zero-day vulnerabilities, mobile threats, etc. Despite research in the security domain having increased significantly, are yet to be mitigated. The evolution of computer networks has greatly exacerbated computer security concerns, particularly internet security in today's networking environment and advanced computing facilities. Although Internet Protocols (IPs) were not designed to place a high priority on security issues, network administrators now have to handle a large variety of intrusion attempts by both individuals with malicious intent and large botnets. ‘An anomaly is an observation which deviates so much from other observations as to arouse suspicions that it was generated by a different mechanism’. Anomalies are considered important because they indicate significant but rare events and can prompt critical actions to be taken in a wide range of application domains; for example, an unusual traffic pattern in a network could mean that a computer has been hacked and data is transmitted to unauthorized destinations; anomalous behavior in credit card transactions could indicate fraudulent activities, and an anomaly in a MRI image may indicate the presence of a malignant tumor. Anomaly detection has been widely applied in countless application domains such as medical and public health, fraud detection, intrusion detection, industrial damage, image processing, sensor networks, robot’s behavior and astronomical data.

Types of anomalies 
Anomalies are referred to as patterns in data that do not conform to a well-defined characteristic of normal patterns. They are generated by a variety of abnormal activities, e.g., credit card fraud, mobile phone fraud, cyberattacks, etc., which are significant to data analysts. An important aspect of anomaly detection is the nature of the anomaly. An anomaly can be categorized in the following way.
•	Point anomaly:   When a particular data instance deviates from the normal pattern of the dataset, it can be considered a point anomaly. For a realistic example, if a persons' normal car fuel usage is five liters per day but if it becomes fifty liters in any random day, then it is a point anomaly.
•	 Contextual anomaly:   When a data instance behaves anomalously in a particular context, it is termed a contextual or conditional anomaly; for example, expenditure on a credit card during a festive period, e.g., Christmas or New Year, is usually higher than during the rest of the year. Although it can be high, it may not be anomalous as high expenses are contextually normal in nature. On the other hand, an equally high expenditure during a non-festive month could be deemed a contextual anomaly.
•	 Collective anomaly:  When a collection of similar data instances behaves anomalously with respect to the entire dataset, the group of data instances is termed a collective anomaly. For example, in a human Electro Cardiogram (ECG) output, the existence of low values for a long period of time indicates an outlying phenomenon corresponding to an abnormal premature contraction whereas one low value by itself is not considered anomalous. 
